---
title: Weaknotes 2
author: Malcolm
layout: post
categories:
  - blog
tags:
  - weaknotes
---

The last week of joblessness is over - tomorrow is my first day at a consulting agency. Hopefully a year from now
I'll have met a lot of people in the Melbourne tech scene, will have learned a lot more (new languages and
technologies?) and will be well on the road to becoming a senior developer.

* I had two sessions with Kite Republic doing their intro to kitesurfing course. It looks fun from a distance and
I'd tried the land equivalent briefly in Berlin, but kitesurfing seems to have a much larger kite and boy,
the moment the wind catches it and pulls you forwards is a huge rush. Today's session had erratic wind and a lot
of crowds but it still only took a brief sample of the fun stuff and I feel hooked. A third session in a couple
weekends and I will probably be looking into buying the gear after that...
* Picked up [Caveblazers](https://store.steampowered.com/app/452060/Caveblazers/) after seeing it mentioned as 
Spelunky meets Risk of Rain, which is an apt description. It doesn't quite have the system-generated-chaos that
Spelunky does, and combat feels a little harder to manage (the Risk of Rain influence I suppose) but I've been
thinking about difficulty in these sort of deliberately-hard games. Moving through combats is currently an 
exercise in button mashing while my health slowly drains away, too fast paced for me to feel in control or 
recognize what I should be doing to improve. But playing is almost an exercise in training one's subconscious as
opposed to consciously choosing and changing tactics - like with my many hours playing Nuclear Throne, you just
play it and (hopefully) enjoy the mastery of slowly improving even if you couldn't specifically name why. 
* _A Star Is Born_ was beautiful, especially the first quarter which really struck me as powerful. It seems
unfair to compare it to _Bohemian Rhapsody_ as they're not really that related but both just happen to be big
movies about music that came out at the same time but I couldn't help it - they did feel like such different
films to me, like two separate genres - _Bohemian Rhapsody_ feels like a movie designed to make you feel something
while _A Star is Born_ wants to make you think? That doesn't feel like a fair statement at all actually, I'll
have to keep thinking about what the core difference is.
* We have begun to vaguely start thinking about a wedding. Oh boy.
