---
title: Weaknotes 4
author: Malcolm
layout: post
categories:
  - blog
tags:
  - weaknotes
---

A week with a client looking into some of their software has had me thinking about complexity.
Some older code uses Spring Boot, which was a simplified approach to the complexity of 
Spring Framework, which itself was a response to the complexity of J2EE. And yet it's still
a giant hulking piece of software to use, and while there may be 100 great features it provides,
if we only need 2 of those I think it's worth remembering that they don't come free. 

Someone once told me that all code is baggage and I wish we remembered this more often. Spring
Boot lets you do tasks that may have been complicated otherwise very easily, but it comes with
a lot of code AKA baggage, and it will weigh you down. One obvious but painful side effect of
using a complex framework is large and inscrutable stacktraces. Developers spend a lot of time
looking at stacktraces, and making this task harder is not to be taken lightly!

In a more abstract sense I think as developers we should at all times try to limit complexity.
But not just complexity of the code we write - libraries, frameworks, etc all increase 
complexity of the application as a whole. Writing a hundred more lines (or even a thousand)
could easily be worth it if you can avoid tying your application to some larger monster
framework.

* In my case I've been working on an application that uses Spring Integration, which 
seems to be a message bus on top of Spring. Methods have inbound and outbound channels,
and this dictates the program flow instead of methods just calling other methods. I'm trying
to guess at why it was used and my only guess is: it seems cool. But it adds nothing else
but complexity!
* Third lesson of kitesurfing and it's hard to stay patient. I just want to fly the kite
around in a good wind, to feel the power of it! Next one will be a private lesson so at least
I don't have to trade off so much.
* I enjoyed [https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rE3j_RHkqJc&fbclid=IwAR3vMzXWVVNQJRYW4YejiSw3OQJYEPDYymiTWxa0tyZCPLUezqkDeaki6W8](this
video about ideas spreading like germs). Reminds me of Snow Crash. One of the ideas I've been
coming to terms with over the last year is that allowing people to communicate faster and
easier than before can not only have negative effects but is perhaps a net negative overall?
I hope Mark Zuckerberg stays up at night thinking about this.
